JUDY WOODRUFF: And now for
more on the special counsel's
investigation into the president
for possible obstruction
of justice, we are
joined by Carrie Johnson.
She's the justice
correspondent for NPR.
Carrie, welcome
back to the program.
CARRIE JOHNSON, NPR:
Happy to be here.
JUDY WOODRUFF: First of
all, define for us, what
is obstruction of justice?
CARRIE JOHNSON: There's
a bunch of obstruction
of justice statutes on
the books, Judy, but,
in plain language, it
means trying to interfere
with or impede an official
proceeding, something
like a grand jury investigation,
a congressional investigation.
And prosecutors would have
to prove some kind of bad
intent by the person involved.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And so tell us
what you have been able to learn
about how the special counsel
is looking into this.
And, by the way, we know it's
been reported that they're also
looking into potential financial
misdeeds.
CARRIE JOHNSON: Yes, the special
counsel investigation appears to
be running on three tracks now,
one probing any Russian
interference in the
election, two, probing
any financial misdealings
in connection with that
interference by associates
of the Trump campaign
and Russians, and, three,
probing obstruction of justice
by the president himself in
the firing of James Comey, the
FBI director he ousted last
month because, he later said,
to take some pressure off the
Russia thing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, this is
clearly, Carrie, an expansion
of what it was originally said
the special counsel's
mission was here.
CARRIE JOHNSON: I think
it's another layer.
We knew at the time
that the deputy attorney
general, Rod Rosenstein,
appointed Bob Mueller
special counsel that his mandate
included crimes that arose or
may have arisen in connection
with the investigation.
Of course, obstruction
of justice may have
arisen in connection
with this investigation
in the president and his
leaning on Comey allegedly to
go light on Michael Flynn, the
national security adviser.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We have also
been hearing in the last few
days, Carrie, about some of the
professionals that the special
counsel, Bob Mueller, has
hired, brought on board for his
team.
Tell us about them.
CARRIE JOHNSON: It's a
breathtaking array of
prosecutorial talent,
Judy, from a man
who had experience prosecuting
the Watergate scandal, a former
FBI agent, Andrew Weissmann,
who led the Justice Department's
fraud and money-laundering
section, Jeannie Rhee, who
had been a top lawyer in
the Obama administration's
DOJ, finally, Michael
Dreeben, the deputy
solicitor general, the man
many lawyers in Justice think
is the most respected guy in
the whole department.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, what does
that tell you about what Mr.
Mueller and they will be -- and
his team will be looking for?
CARRIE JOHNSON: Well, it signals
that special counsel Mueller
knows there are a number of
thorny legal issues involved
here, everything from financial
dealings and tracking the money,
to complicated questions of
executive privilege with respect
to the president, his aides,
and conversations he might
have had with people outside
the government as well.
And Michael Dreeben, the
deputy solicitor general, is
well-known for making criminal
convictions stick
in appeals courts.
So they're settling in
for the long haul here.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is it
your understanding,
from what you have been
able to learn, that Mr.
Mueller is now finished, that
the team is done, or that
he's continuing to hire, bring
people on?
CARRIE JOHNSON: They have
not given us a formal update.
He's not yet submitted
a formal budget to the
Justice Department.
And I'm hearing from sources
in and outside the government
that more people are clamoring
to join this team.
They view it as a
major public service.
And working with Bob
Mueller, who had been
the FBI director for 12
years, with his reputation
for integrity, is something
that a lot of people inside the
government want to do still.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, finally,
what are you hearing about
how long this could go on?
How long is it going to take?
CARRIE JOHNSON: There is no
prediction at this point.
Of course, all these
investigators could dig and
dig and dig and find nothing.
At the end of that time, they
may want to do a report that
becomes public, or they may
find something they want to
charge with a grand jury.
And it's unpredictable right
now who they might charge,
if anyone, and whether that
person might want to
fight it out in court for
months or years to come.
Finally, Judy, with respect
to the president himself, no
evidence yet he will face any
charges whatsoever, but there
is a complicated legal question
of whether you can actually
indict a sitting president of
the United States or turn that
evidence over to Congress for
possible impeachment.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A
complicated legal question.
And we can assume some
folks are looking into that.
CARRIE JOHNSON: I think a lot
of folks are looking into that.
It arose during Watergate,
of course, and was
never fully answered.
We may yet get an answer in this
investigation before it's over.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Carrie
Johnson of NPR, we thank you.
CARRIE JOHNSON: Thank you.